# 2021
## Problem 1
### Part a

The shown triangle clearly has 2 sides which individually are shorter than the third, but the sides together are longer than the third. Thus if you subtract them from each other they become even shorter than the third. Therefore $d(v,g)\geq d(v,l)-d(g,l)$. This can be said for any triangle due to triangle inequality.

### Part b
> A valid heuristic function requires $h(g) = 0$. Show that this requirement is fulfilled.

The requirement $h(v) = max_{l\in L}\{d(v,l) - d(g,l)\} = 0$ for $g$ is upheld as that would translate to $h(v) = max_{l\in L}\{d(g,l) - d(g,l)\} = max_{l\in L}\{0\} = 0$

### Part c
> A valid heuristic function also requires $h(v) \geq 0$. Argue that even for a large set of evenly distributed landmarks it is possible for this requirement to be broken.

There could be a case where $v$ is an equally large distance from every landmark, but $g$ is further from all landmarks than $v$, then $h(v)$ would be negative.

### Part d
> Why is h(v) an admissible heuristic

$h(v)$ is admissible because it is the maximum possible difference between the shortest path from $v$ to any landmark and the shortest path from $g$ to that same landmark. This means that $h(v)$ is always less than or equal to the actual shortest path from $v$ to $g$.

### Part e
> Do you expect $h(v)$ to be a stronger heuristic than the straight line heuristic $h_{SLD}(v)$ (why/why not)?

I do, the landmark heuristic actually uses the distances on the roads, so it would be more accurate than the straight line heuristic. This is exagerrated when the landmarks are evenly distributed.

## Problem 2
### Part a
> What is the cost of $FT$?

$$
    FT_{cost} = 2*2 + 1*2 + 2 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 11
$$

### Part b
> Write the neighborhood of FT as a list of pairs ($i \leftrightarrow j$, cost), where cost is the cost of the resulting timetable?

$$
    (2 \leftrightarrow 3, 11), (2 \leftrightarrow 4, 13), (2 \leftrightarrow 7, 10), (2 \leftrightarrow 8, 9), (2 \leftrightarrow 12, 10), (3 \leftrightarrow 5, 11),\\
    (3 \leftrightarrow 6, 10), (3 \leftrightarrow 10, 14), (3 \leftrightarrow 11, 13), (4 \leftrightarrow 5, 13), (4 \leftrightarrow 6, 11), (4 \leftrightarrow 10, 16), (4 \leftrightarrow 11, 15),\\
    (4 \leftrightarrow 12, 11), (5 \leftrightarrow 7, 10), (5 \leftrightarrow 8, 10), (5 \leftrightarrow 12, 10), (6 \leftrightarrow 12, 8), (7 \leftrightarrow 8, 11), (7 \leftrightarrow 9, 11),\\
    (7 \leftrightarrow 10, 13),(8 \leftrightarrow 10, 13), (10 \leftrightarrow 12, 13), (11 \leftrightarrow 12, 12)
$$

### Part c
> Re-write the pseudocode of the simulated annealing algorithm to change it to solve a minimization problem. You only have to re-write the lines that change.

```pseudocode
function Simulated-Annealing(problem,schedule) returns a solution
    current ← Make-Node(problem.Initial-State)
    for t = 1 to ∞ do
        T ← schedule(t)
        if T = 0 then return current
        next ← a random selected neighbor of current
        ∆E ← next.Value − current.Value
        if ∆E ≥ 0 then current ← next
            else current ← next only with probability e∆E/T
```

Only change required is to make it an improving solution, so `∆E ← next.Value − current.Value` should be changed to `∆E ← current.Value - next.Value`. As this makes `∆E` positive when the next value is better than the current value.

### Part d
> Write the value of T , next, and ∆E/T for each iteration of your corrected simulated annealing algorithm. Write also the value of $e^{\Delta E/T}$ and current when relevant. Assume that problem.Initial-State is the feasible timetable FT found by the student

**Iteration 1**
- $T = 3$
- $next = 10\leftrightarrow 12$
- $\Delta E = 11 - 13 = -2$
- $e^{\Delta E/T} = e^{-2/3} = 0.51$
- Not accepted, has to be above 0.55


**Iteration 2**
- $T = 2$
- $next = 6\leftrightarrow 12$
- $\Delta E = 11 - 8 = 3$
- Accepted
- $current = FT with (6\leftrightarrow 12) = 8$

**Iteration 3**
- $T = 2$
- $next = 2\leftrightarrow 3$
- $\Delta E = 8 - 9 = -1$
- $e^{\Delta E/T} = e^{-1/2} = 0.61$
- Accepted
- $current = FT with (6\leftrightarrow 12), (2\leftrightarrow 3) = 9$

**Iteration 4**
- $T = 0$
- Done because $T=0$
