# 2022
## Problem 1
### Part a
> Write the minimax value of each Max and Min node in the tree. Mark the minimax decision of Max in the initial state by highlighting the relevant outgoing edge. 

See [2022-1.tex](2022-1.tex)

### Part b
> Indicate the possible alpha and beta cuts in the game tree. Assume that child nodes are evaluated left to right. 

See [2022-1.tex](2022-1.tex)

### Part c
> Is it possible to prune a larger number of nodes in the tree if child nodes are evaluated using another ordering strategy than left to right (why/why not)? 

Not in this case. The tree is already pruned to the maximum extent possible.

## Problem 2
### Part a
> Draw the ROBDD of $(x \Rightarrow y) \land \lnot x$ using variable ordering $y < x$.

See [2022-2.tex](2022-2.tex)

### Part b
> Write the simplest Boolean expression that $(x \Rightarrow y) \land \lnot x$ is logically equivalent to. Explain your answer.

The expression $(x \Rightarrow y) \land \lnot x$ is equivalent to $\lnot x$, as per the ROBDD. This is because the implication $x \Rightarrow y$ is only true when $x$ is false or $y$ and $x$ is true. So:
$$
    ((\lnot x)\lor(x\land y))\land \lnot x \equiv \lnot x
$$

### Part c
> Does $(x \Rightarrow y) \land \lnot x \models \lnot y$ hold (why/why not)?

No, because the expression is equivalent to $\lnot x$. We have a counter example where $x$ is false and $y$ is true. Then we have the expression that $(x \Rightarrow y) \land \lnot x$ is true, but $\lnot y$ is false.

### Part d
> Use $Apply(\land,2,3)$ to make the conjunction of the two ROBDDs in the multi-rooted ROBDD with identifiers 2 and 3. Draw the call tree of App as in the $Apply$ example of Lecture 7. Indicate cache hits and draw the resulting multi-rooted ROBDD 

Outside of curriculum.

### Part e
Outside of curriculum.

## Problem 3
### Part a
> Is $h(n)$ an admissible heuristic?

Yes. The The heuristic never overestimates the cost to reach the goal. It may be the exact cost to reach the goal, but it will never be more than that. Essentially it is a releaxation of the problem.

### Part b
> Is $h(n)$ a consistent heuristic?

Yes. It's a relaxation of the problem, so it will always be consistent. One can, for each street, check that $c + h'(n) \leq h(n)$, where $c$ is the cost of the street and $n$ and $n'$ are the intersections it connects.

### Part c

| Iter. | $frontier$ | $reached$ |
|-------|------------|-----------|
| 0     | $(3, C, 0, 3)$ | $(C,0)$ |
| 1     | $(3, F, 1, 2), (5, D, 2, 3), (7, A, 2, 5)$         | $(A,2), (C,0), (D,2), (F,1)$ |
| 2     | $(4, G, 2, 2), (5, D, 2, 3), (7, A, 2, 5)$         | $(A,2), (C,0), (D,2), (F,1), (G, 2)$ |
| 3     | $(5, L, 5, 0), (5, D, 2, 3), (5, H, 4, 1), (5, K, 3, 2), (7, A, 2, 5), (7, J, 4, 3)$         | $(A,2), (C,0), (D,2), (F,1), (G, 2), (H, 4), (J, 4), (K, 3), (L, 5)$ |

### Part d
> Describe at least one advantage and one disadvantage of choosing $w$ strictly larger than 0.5.

The advantage of choosing $w$ strictly larger than 0.5 is that the search will be more greedy, and will more likely find the optimal path. The disadvantage is that the search will be less exploratory, and may get stuck in a local minimum, due to the heuristic being inadmissible.

### Part e
> Does the road pricing change the cheapest path from Professor Smart’s home to his work (why/why not)?

Yes it does. The older route was C,F,G,L with a cost of 5, with road pricing it now costs 7. On the other hand the route C,D,H,L costs 6 even with road pricing. So this is the new optimal route.

### Part f

> According to Professor Smart, road pricing makes it impossible to use the A∗ algorithm to find a cheapest route from his home to his work. The reason is that heuristic search problems require constant action costs, but when road pricing is introduced a street will have different cost depending on whether the road price fee already has been paid or not. 

> Is Professor Smart right or not? Carefully argue for your answer. 

He is not. We can simply just change the state information to include whether or not the road pricing has been paid. And when entering the road pricing zone flip that bit. h(n) is still a relaxation and remains admissible and consistent. So the A* algorithm will still find the optimal path.

## Problem 4
### Part a
> A local search algorithm assigns a single variable in each iteration. 

No. Local search algorithms can assign multiple variables in each iteration. They search in the space of assignments, not just single variables.

### Part b
> If Bactracking-Search is extended to find all solutions then the ordering of domain values by Order-Domain-Values is irrelevant

Correct. If we are looking for all solutions, then the ordering of domain values is irrelevant. We will find all solutions eventually. This is a terrible idea though.

### Part c
> If AC-3(csp) returns true then csp has at least one solution.

Wrong. AC-3 only checks if the arcs are consistent, there are no guarantee there is a solution to csp, just because the arcs are consistent.

### Part d
> If an LP has an optimal dual solution then it also has an optimal primal solution

Correct. This is due to the strong duality theorem.

### Part e
> The average run-time of Simplex is linear in the number of decision variables.

Wrong. The simplex runtime grows linearly in the number of constraints. The number of variables increases the runtime logarithmically.




